---
layout: post
title: "On time and project management"
date: 2017-03-20
image: /nestling-site/img/relationship-diagram.jpg
author: lucas
---

<h2>Hi. It's been awhile.</h2>

<p>We started this blog with every intention of posting every week, but it has now been a month since our first post! Wow.</p>

<p>We've been pretty active on Twitter, but our Facebook is somehow even more sparse than here...</p>

<p>I'd like to use this as a springboard into a discussion of project planning and management in general.</p>

<h2>In the beginning...</h2>

<p>Steven, Ana, and I are, by choice, working as a non-hierarchical collective. There is no team leader. Certainly, we're each ultimately responsible for a certain aspect of the game: Ana for visuals, Lucas for audio, and Steven for environments and overall code integration. You may notice, though, that there is crossover between these domains; there's programming involved in the audio, there are visual assets in environments, and so on. As such, people are involved in the decisions in every aspect of the game, and everyone has veto power. We don't have a formal protocol in place in the event of a true gridlock... but that hasn't come up yet!</p>

<p>You may wonder if this structure is chaotic or disorganized. We've actually been pretty good at keeping tasks moving through our task list (managed through the powerful and open-source tool <a href="https://taiga.io/">Taiga</a>). We also check in -- in person -- before anyone leaves our workspace for the night. I think we're pretty good at communicating.</p>

<p>The problem is, since we've gotten so wrapped up in the development of the game, we've allowed our blog and social media presence to fall by the wayside.</p>

<h2>Two lessons</h2>

<p>We've learned two big lessons in collectively dropping the ball on our internet presence.</p>

<p>First: <b>when it's everybody's task, it can become nobody's</b>. Keeping up with #screenshotsaturday or writing up a devblog isn't, to be frank, as exciting as actually building things. With no single person in charge, it just didn't happen.</p>

<p>Second: <b>delegation does not (necessarily) equal hierarchy</b>. It's true that the blog/Facebook/Twitter are our public face, and everyone on the team deserves a say in how we present ourselves in public. At some point, though, we need to trust one of us to be able to rep for the team in a genuine way, the same way we've entrusted one of us to code the screenshot mechanic or rig the bird wings -- much more consequential elements of our game! -- without needing to get everyone's input every step of the way.</p>

<h2>So. Hi.</h2>

<p>It looks like I'll be leading the charge on our blog, Twitter, and Facebook. Don't worry, we'll still got to hear from Ana and Steven! But mostly we'll let them focus on the work they're doing.</p>

<p>See you nest time.</p>
